## News for sydbox

This file lists the major changes between versions. For a more detailed list of
every change, see git log.

* Use *pinktrace* library instead of low-level ptrace() functions.
* Support a supplementary configuration file via **SYDBOX_USER_CONFIG**
  environment variable.

### 0.6.8
* Added support for network aliases.
* Fix handling of `rmdir()` which doesn't resolve symlinks.

### 0.6.7
* Regression: Duplicating network address information introduced a bug which
  cause sydbox to hang. This is now fixed.
* Added more unit tests.
* Miscellaneous performance fixes.

### 0.6.6
* Fix getting/setting system call return values on IA64.
* Regression: Binding a socket with an unsupported family caused sydbox to
  dump core. This is now fixed.

### 0.6.5
* Ported to PPC, now PPC is a supported architecture.
* More detailed logging for network sandboxing.
* Fix the check for fcntl after bind.
* Fix how we store the last bind address which may cause segmentation faults.

### 0.6.4
* Use vfork instead of fork to spawn initial child, which decreases start up
  time. This also replaces before\_initial\_execve hack for `execve()` sandboxing.
* Network access violations can be filtered
* Fix option parsing

### 0.6.3
* Resolve path of non-abstract UNIX sockets
* Intercept dup family calls and fcntl calls to see if a socket descriptor we
  care about has been duplicated

### 0.6.2
* When bind's port argument is zero, instead of looking up the port from
  /proc/net/tcp{,6} intercept getsockname() at exit and get the address.
* Fix network sandboxing for UDP sockets

### 0.6.1
* Fixed net/whitelist/connect magic command
* Made exact/pattern distinction clear for unix sockets

### 0.6
* Fixed handling of abstract UNIX sockets
* Added `unix-abstract://` whitelist prefix to white list abstract UNIX sockets
* Unix sockets can now be white listed using `fnmatch` patterns

### 0.5
* New configure switch --disable-ipv6 disables IPV6 support for network sandboxing
* Fix problems on ppc64
* Remove allow, deny and local network sandboxing modes.
* Whitelist addresses can be specified in CIDR notation.
* Added --network-whitelist-bind command line option to white list bind addresses
* Split network whitelist into two whitelists, one for bind(), one for connect(), sendto etc.
* Display the last execve in access violation output
* Display child's current working directory in access violation output
* Miscellaneous performance fixes

### 0.4
* Make network sandboxing on by default.
* When bind's port argument is zero, look up the actual port from /proc/net/tcp{,6}
  after the subsequent listen call for network\_restrict\_connect.
* GObject isn't a dependency anymore.
* Try hard to restore errno after ptrace errors.
* Moved all check based unit tests to gtest. dev-libs/check isn't a dependency anymore.

### 0.3
* Set errno correctly when a file descriptor doesn't exist.
* Ignore dirfd if path argument is absolute.

### 0.2
* Fixed exit code, now sydbox always returns the exit code of the eldest child.

### 0.2_alpha4
* Add options and magic commands to {en,dis}able the lstat wrapper.

### 0.2_alpha3
* Fix tests

### 0.2_alpha2
* Ship a configuration file for Paludis.
* Small performance improvements.

### 0.2_alpha
* Wait for all children to exit by default. This can be unset using the command
  line option -X or the magic command `wait/eldest`.
* Let the children continue their execution by calling
  `ptrace(PTRACE_CONT, ...)` instead of attempting to kill them during exit for
  `wait/eldest` mode.

### 0.1
* Add magic commands addexec and rmexec.
* Fix loading of options from environment.
* Sandbox `sendto()` calls.
* Extend network whitelist to work for deny mode.
* Intercept `lstat()` calls for magic stat as well.
* Exit with correct error code when child is terminated by a signal.
* Many performance improvements.

### 0.1_rc6
* Changed network interface with a more cleaner one.
* Support for network whitelisting.

### 0.1_rc5
* Proper network sandboxing. Now sydbox is able to restrict network access  
  to only local connections.

### 0.1_rc4:
* `addpredict` is dead!
* Paranoid mode is dead!
* Magic `open()` calls are replaced with magic `stat()` calls.
* Fixed a nasty bug that might cause rmfilter to segfault.

### 0.1_rc3:
* Replaced access violation hooks with filters.

### 0.1_rc2:
* Ported to PPC64, now PPC64 is a supported architecture. (thanks to mrothe)
* Removed the so-called "compatibility" mode.
* Changed prefix of environment variables to SYDBOX\_ (was SANDBOX\_)
* Implemented access violation hooks.
* Lots of refactoring.

### 0.1_rc1:
* Don't die when `ptrace()` fails with __EIO__ , fixes [#213](https://bugs.exherbo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=213).
* Don't barf if configuration file doesn't exist.
* Fix segfaults due to using log functions in signal handler.

### 0.1_beta10:
* Fix build failures due to bad packaging, iow i fail.

### 0.1_beta9:
* Fix `execve(2)` and network sandboxing checks when path sandboxing is
  disabled.
* Ported to IA64, now IA64 is a supported architecture. (thanks to Ingmar and ahf)
* Support for tracing 32 bit binaries on x86\_64 systems.

### 0.1_beta8:
* Exit when eldest child exits and add a command line flag `--wait-all` to  
  wait for all children before exiting.
* Fix `/proc/self` substitution.
* Add configuration file variable `main.allow_proc_pid` and allow `/proc/PID`  
  depending on that variable. This defaults to true because allowing  
  `/proc/PID` is required for some programs to work reliably.
* Path sandboxing can now be disabled using the configuration file or  
  `--disable-sandbox-path` command line option. Previously this was only  
  possible using `/dev/sydbox/{on,off}` magic commands.
* Configuration file changes, make sure to merge your configuration file.

### 0.1_beta7:
* Fix magic stat problems on x86.
* Fix segfaults caused by wrong handling of the list of children.

### 0.1_beta6:
* Implement proper `execve(2)` sandboxing instead of the ban\_exec hack.
* Add command line options `--sandbox-exec` and `--sandbox--network`.
* Fix inheritance of sandbox data between children.

### 0.1_beta5:
* Implement `/dev/sydbox/{un,}ban_exec`. paludis-sydbox branch makes use of  
  these magic commands to ban `execve()` calls in metadata phase.
* When `shell_expand()` returns empty string, it was added to the pathlist  
  resulting every path prefix check to be allowed, this is now fixed.

### 0.1_beta4:
* Use an `lstat(2)` wrapper which tries hard to avoid __ENAMETOOLONG__ issues.
* Handle `/proc/self` correctly when resolving paths.

### 0.1_beta3:
* Fixed event handling and inheritance of sandbox data. Sydbox behaves  
  correctly now when a child calls `fork()`, `vfork()` or `clone()`.

### 0.1_beta2:
* Canonicalize filenames by default. This was previously only done in  
  paranoid mode. This makes sydbox stricter (expect more test  
  suites to fail).

### 0.1_beta:
* Fix bogus access violations.  
  As an example sydbox would throw an access violation in a simple case like:  
  `$ mkdir -p /var/tmp/paludis`
  because of `mkdir("/var", ...)` being called.  
  This is now fixed.
* Use glib's key file format for configuration file. This kills the  
  dependency on dev-libs/confuse. Being a crucial system tool we're  
  trying to keep the dependencies as few as possible.
* Many other small fixes.

### 0.1_alpha:
* Initial public release.

